EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503
January 26, 2022
M-22-09

MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
FROM: Shalanda D. Young, Acting Director
SUBJECT: Moving the U.S. Government Toward Zero Trust Cybersecurity Principles

This memorandum sets forth a Federal zero trust architecture (ZTA) strategy, requiring agencies to meet specific cybersecurity standards and objectives by the end of Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 in order to reinforce the Government's defenses against increasingly sophisticated and persistent threat campaigns. Those campaigns target Federal technology infrastructure, threatening public safety and privacy, damaging the American economy, and weakening trust in Government.

I. OVERVIEW

Every day, the Federal Government executes unique and deeply challenging missions: agencies safeguard our nation's critical infrastructure, conduct scientific research, engage in diplomacy, and provide benefits and services for the American people, among many other public functions. To deliver on these missions effectively, our nation must make intelligent and vigorous use of modern technology and security practices, while avoiding disruption by malicious cyber campaigns.

Successfully modernizing the Federal Government's approach to security requires a Government-wide endeavor. In May of 2021, the President issued Executive Order (EO) 14028, Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity, initiating a sweeping Government-wide effort to ensure that baseline security practices are in place, to migrate the Federal Government to a zero trust architecture, and to realize the security benefits of cloud-based infrastructure while mitigating associated risks.

II. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

In the current threat environment, the Federal Government can no longer depend on conventional perimeter-based defenses to protect critical systems and data. As President Biden stated in EO 14028, "Incremental improvements will not give us the security we need; instead, the Federal Government needs to make bold changes and significant investments in order to defend the vital institutions that underpin the American way of life."

A transition to a "zero trust" approach to security provides a defensible architecture for this new environment. As described in the Department of Defense Zero Trust Reference Architecture, "The foundational tenet of the Zero Trust Model is that no actor, system, network, or service operating outside or within the security perimeter is trusted. Instead, we must verify anything and everything attempting to establish access. It is a dramatic paradigm shift in philosophy of how we secure our infrastructure, networks, and data, from verify once at the perimeter to continual verification of each user, device, application, and transaction."

This strategy envisions a Federal Government where:
- Federal staff have enterprise-managed accounts, allowing them to access everything they need to do their job while remaining reliably protected from even targeted, sophisticated phishing attacks.
- The devices that Federal staff use to do their jobs are consistently tracked and monitored, and the security posture of those devices is taken into account when granting access to internal resources.
- Agency systems are isolated from each other, and the network traffic flowing between and within them is reliably encrypted.
- Enterprise applications are tested internally and externally, and can be made available to staff securely over the internet.
- Federal security teams and data teams work together to develop data categories and security rules to automatically detect and ultimately block unauthorized access to sensitive information.

This strategy places significant emphasis on stronger enterprise identity and access controls, including multi-factor authentication (MFA). Without secure, enterprise-managed identity systems, adversaries can take over user accounts and gain a foothold in an agency to steal data or launch attacks. This strategy sets a new baseline for access controls across the Government that prioritizes defense against sophisticated phishing, and directs agencies to consolidate identity systems so that protections and monitoring can be consistently applied.

A key tenet of a zero trust architecture is that no network is implicitly considered trusted — a principle that may be at odds with some agencies' current approach to securing networks and associated systems. All traffic must be encrypted and authenticated as soon as practicable. This includes internal traffic, as made clear in EO 14028, which directs that all data must be encrypted while in transit.

Further, Federal applications cannot rely on network perimeter protections to guard against unauthorized access. Users should log into applications, rather than networks, and enterprise applications should eventually be able to be used over the public internet. In the near-term, every application should be treated as internet-accessible from a security perspective.

III. ACTIONS

While the concepts behind zero trust architectures are not new, the implications of shifting away from "trusted networks" are new to most enterprises, including many agencies. This process will be a journey for the Federal Government, and there will be learning and adjustments along the way as agencies adapt to new practices and technologies.

This memorandum requires agencies to achieve specific zero trust security goals by the end of Fiscal Year (FY) 2024. These goals are organized using the zero trust maturity model developed by CISA. CISA's zero trust model describes five complementary areas of effort (pillars) (Identity, Devices, Networks, Applications and Workloads, and Data), with three themes that cut across these areas (Visibility and Analytics, Automation and Orchestration, and Governance).

The strategic goals set forth in this memorandum align with CISA's five pillars:

1. Identity: Agency staff use enterprise-managed identities to access the applications they use in their work. Phishing-resistant MFA protects those personnel from sophisticated online attacks.

2. Devices: The Federal Government has a complete inventory of every device it operates and authorizes for Government use, and can prevent, detect, and respond to incidents on those devices.

3. Networks: Agencies encrypt all DNS requests and HTTP traffic within their environment, and begin executing a plan to break down their perimeters into isolated environments.

4. Applications and Workloads: Agencies treat all applications as internet-connected, routinely subject their applications to rigorous empirical testing, and welcome external vulnerability reports.

5. Data: Agencies are on a clear, shared path to deploy protections that make use of thorough data categorization. Agencies are taking advantage of cloud security services to monitor access to their sensitive data, and have implemented enterprise-wide logging and information sharing.

A. Identity

Vision: Agency staff use enterprise-managed identities to access the applications they use in their work. Phishing-resistant MFA protects those personnel from sophisticated online attacks.

Actions:
1. Agencies must employ centralized identity management systems for agency users that can be integrated into applications and common platforms.
2. Agencies must use strong MFA throughout their enterprise.
   - MFA must be enforced at the application layer, instead of the network layer.
   - For agency staff, contractors, and partners, phishing-resistant MFA is required.
   - For public users, phishing-resistant MFA must be an option.
   - Password policies must not require use of special characters or regular rotation.
3. When authorizing users to access resources, agencies must consider at least one device-level signal alongside identity information about the authenticated user.

The Federal Government must improve its identity systems and access controls. As agencies adopt new infrastructure and applications, they should ensure that information is accessed by the right users, at the right time, and for the right purposes. Zero trust architectures require metadata about the user to allow agencies to make risk-based decisions at the policy enforcement point.

Agencies must require their users to use a phishing-resistant method to access agency-hosted accounts. For routine self-service access by agency staff, contractors, and partners, agency systems must discontinue support for authentication methods that fail to resist phishing, including protocols that register phone numbers for SMS or voice calls, supply one-time codes, or receive push notifications.

B. Devices

Vision: Agencies maintain a complete inventory of every device authorized and operated for official business and can prevent, detect, and respond to incidents on those devices.

Actions:
1. Agencies must create reliable asset inventories through participation in CISA's Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) program.
2. Agencies must ensure their Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tools meet CISA's technical requirements and are deployed widely.

A necessary foundation for any enterprise-wide zero trust architecture is a complete understanding of the devices, users, and systems interacting within an organization.

C. Networks

Vision: Agencies encrypt all DNS requests and HTTP traffic within their environment and begin executing a plan to break down their perimeters into isolated environments.

Actions:
1. Agencies must resolve DNS queries using encrypted DNS wherever it is technically supported.
2. Agencies must enforce HTTPS for all web and API traffic in their environment.
3. Agencies must develop a zero trust architecture plan that describes the agency's approach to environmental isolation.

A key zero trust principle is assuming that any component can be compromised. Agencies must move away from the practice of maintaining a broad enterprise-wide network that allows enhanced visibility or access to many distinct applications and enterprise functions.

In NIST SP 800-207, NIST describes several approaches to a zero trust architecture for enterprise workflows: enhanced identity governance, logical micro-segmentation, and network-based segmentation. Each of these approaches has the same goal: to meaningfully isolate environments, so that an adversary that compromises one application or component cannot easily move laterally within an organization and compromise other distinct environments.

D. Applications and Workloads

Vision: Agencies treat all applications as internet-connected, routinely subject their applications to rigorous empirical testing, and welcome external vulnerability reports.

Actions:
1. Agencies must operate dedicated application security testing programs.
2. Agencies must utilize high-quality firms specializing in application security for independent third-party evaluation.
3. Agencies must maintain an effective and welcoming public vulnerability disclosure program for their internet-accessible systems.
4. Agencies must identify at least one internal-facing FISMA Moderate application and make it fully operational and accessible over the public internet.

For Federal applications to withstand sophisticated probing and attack, agencies need to go beyond implementing and documenting security controls. Approaching an application from a particular network must not be considered any less risky than approaching it from the public internet.

E. Data

Vision: Agencies are on a clear, shared path to deploy protections that make use of thorough data categorization. Agencies take advantage of cloud security services and tools to discover, classify, and protect their sensitive data, and have implemented enterprise-wide logging and information sharing.

Actions:
1. Federal Chief Data Officers and Chief Information Security Officers will create a joint committee to develop a zero trust data security guide for agencies.
2. Agencies must implement initial automation of data categorization and security responses, focusing on tagging and managing access to sensitive documents.
3. Agencies must audit access to any data encrypted at rest in commercial cloud infrastructure.
4. Agencies must work with CISA to implement comprehensive logging and information-sharing capabilities, as described in OMB Memorandum M-21-31.

F. OMB Policy Alignment

Moving to a zero trust architecture involves changes to nearly every aspect of an enterprise's security posture. As a result, this strategy necessarily touches on a large number of enterprise security practices, which can intersect with other existing OMB policies.

Appendix A: References

Federal agencies' published architectural models:
- CISA's Zero Trust Maturity Model — available at: https://www.cisa.gov/publication/zero-trust-maturity-model
- CISA's Cloud Security Technical Reference Architecture — available at: https://www.cisa.gov/publication/cloud-security-technical-reference-architecture
- NIST's SP 800-207, Zero Trust Architecture — available at: https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-207/final
- The NIST National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE) — Implementing a Zero Trust Architecture: https://www.nccoe.nist.gov/projects/building-blocks/zero-trust-architecture
- GSA's Zero Trust Architecture Buyer's Guide: https://www.gsa.gov/cdnstatic/Zero%20Trust%20Architecture%20Buyers%20Guide%20v11%2020210610%20(2).pdf
- The Department of Defense's Zero Trust Reference Architecture: https://dodcio.defense.gov/Portals/0/Documents/Library/(U)ZT_RA_v1.1(U)_Mar21.pdf

How to cite this document:
Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget. (2022, January 26). Moving the U.S. Government toward zero trust cybersecurity principles (M-22-09). https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/M-22-09.pdf
